#summary How to install and deploy Jaikuengine using OS X

= Introduction =

Getting a Jaikuengine instance running on Google App Engine is probably a lot easier than you think. Still, it's not for everyone, at least not without instructions. So here goes.

= Preconditions =

  * OS X
  * Python 2.5 or 2.6 (I assume 2.4 and 2.7 works too)
  * PIL (python-imaging), docutils and mox

= Installing =
Using macports, it should be as simple as the following:

  * Install [http://www.macports.org/install.php Macports] according to the instructions.
  * `sudo port install subversion`
  * `sudo port install py25-pil` or `sudo port install py26-pil` (Python 2.5 and 2.6 respectively)
  * `sudo port install py25-docutils` or `sudo port install py26-docutils`
  * `sudo port install mox`

Observe that you can't (easily) run Jaikuengine in a virtualenv so `sudo` is the way to go for the moment.

== Checking out Jaikuengine ==

  * `svn checkout http://jaikuengine.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ jaikuengine`
  * `cd jaikuengine`

== Local settings ==
Take a look at both `settings.py` and `local_settings.py` if you're interested in seeing how Jaikuengine can be configured. You can use `local_settings.py` to override settings in `settings.py`.

  * `cp local_settings.example.py local_settings.py

== Run locally ==
The below loads test data, changes you make will be overwritten next time you run it. The advantage is that you have a few users and channels already defined.

  * `python manage.py testserver common/fixtures/*.json`

Browse to [http://localhost:8080] and log in as username and password "popular".